
---
title: "Growing up with my Golden Oldie."
date: "2020-03-31"
description: "ഒരു പേമാരിയിൽ മീൻ പിടിക്കാൻ പോയ പത്തുവയസ്സുകാരന്റെ ഓർമ്മകൾ."
tags: [life]
---

My initial days at Kolkata were a scuffle. I was always running from something. Later the place gave me refuge. I felt safe here at last. It was a victorious feeling. Hometown for me got a new definition. Even after a long time in this place, even when everyone felt homesick, I was happy. I was perfectly at home. I never had any complaints about the new cuisine, except that I don’t get my favorite beef and parotta anymore.

A few weeks ago something changed. It was Kalbaisakhi. The thunderous clouds poured their year-round collection on the Hot burdened lose soil. Some would find it crazy, walking the grounds on such a night. But one person won’t; My Grandpa.

A sudden thunderstorm struck inside me. All of a sudden, the forgotten remorse overwhelmed like an overflowing river. It Burned me inside out like the thunderstruck soil. Inner self was literally burning, yet my body was struggling to keep up with the cold-hearted rain. Why didn’t I call him through all these struggles? I miss Home.

“He appeared in my conscience with his undeniable begging smile that he always wore in front of me. He evermore had it on his new set of teeth in such rough nights. His makeshift turban on the bald glossy head and full white trousers over which he wore his half tied lungi. That man had his own vogue in everything he did. A man of his 70’s, no one knows his birthday and he never cared. He lost his mom at an early age of two. He grew up with his step-siblings. He is an exceedingly self-made man whom you would call successful. Father of six and profoundly loved grandfather of a score. He is my real ‘old man’, who stands for the old ways, still allowing his children to be in their new system he would never approve of. It was on such a rainy night of my childhood, I had my first memorable acquaintance or an apprenticeship with him. Of all the memories I have of my childhood, he is the one who took me back to them’.

I was half asleep when he knocked on the door. My mom was his eldest daughter. I, my brother and sister, were the eldest of all his grandchildren. My Brother was brought up by him and even now I’m jealous of him for that. My mother opened the door immediately. He asked outright, ‘Are the kids asleep?’. My mom replied in affirmative. Still, she woke me and asked, ‘Uppachi is here, will you go with him for fishing?’. (we called him uppachi). Was I excited or sleepy I still don’t know, I ended up with him on his white scooter. I had the round net in my hand and a small torch that he had for me. It was raining cats and dogs. Still, we never stopped. I had the large plastic cover that my mother gave secured on my small head. I was completely drenched and shivering to my bones. Then he slowly parked the scooter and started unpacking his things from under the seat. He had his billhook/vaakkathi, a small cover, and his Torch. He took a small piece from the tobacco he always stocked under the seat and bit on it in a very expert manner. This I’ve always noted of him, he always required that bit of tobacco in his mouth. For a man who survived a stroke and whatnot, I never approved of it.

The water in the shallow but fast-flowing channel was like freshly brewed coffee. Although many of his beliefs changed over time, I could remember that then, Fishing according to him should be done in the dark and we should not talk while fishing; the fish might hear us and swim away. We moved slowly through the channel, we always walked upstream. Suddenly I saw something long like a snake swimming towards me, I somehow jumped back and screamed. All I saw was a sudden flash of his hand and a splash in the water in front of me. After the mud settled he lightly searched under the water and softly asked me to give him the cover. He had a long snakelike fish in his hand (later it became very familiar to me in the name ‘aaral’). It was almost cut in half, his throw with the billhook was of pinpoint precision. Then he gently tapped on my back and said, ‘don’t worry, uppachi is here’. Even though that was not sufficient for a 10-year-old boy who encountered a gruesome animal, his strong eyes and joking smile somehow did the job.

He’s always been on my side, as support, and as cautions. To the end of my teenage, we used to gossip even about himself and my grandma who had an almost love at first sight marriage(as I call it), and all the other things like stars, planets, religions, and Science, when we went fishing. He would at times watch me taking a dip in the river while he poured his years-long stories and never-ending experiences. Years after our first fishing, he handed me the scythe one day and after a while, we even improved our fishing technique to which made me the catcher and him the holder. Yet, somehow I know I am not leading. I am just following the well-lit path he paved for me in the darkness. Sometimes, he would dive into head high water to catch that one single fish he wishes to catch, leaving me alone. He never bothered the cold nor his dress but he always reassured: “Don’t Worry, I am here”.

 hear it clear like the thunderous storm hitting me. I am starting to fancy this now, the raw stinging drops on my face, the fast-flowing soil beneath my feet, the darkness, the numb. Because even if I lose everything, there will be someone waiting for me to come back. After all, there is no place better than Home, except Grandpa’.

Now that I am away from home, my 10-year-old cousin should’ve taken my position for fishing. But our stories will always be ours.